# Creativity

While my “About Me” page focuses on my Computer Science skills and knowledge, I thought I would elaborate more on my more creative side.
 
Growing up with my parents in Barbados, I gained not only a distaste for shoes, but also had an environment to nurture my creativity. My parents were both creative individuals, my mother being an entrepreneur and watercolour artist, while my father owned a small advertising and graphic design business. From a young age, my mother taught me her painting techniques and my father impressed upon me the importance of composition and symbolism. Additionally, living in a small Caribbean country with limited resources and high import taxes, I learned to apply my out-of-the-box thinking to develop functional solutions to a variety of real world problems.

After discovering Computer Science and programming in my late teens, I fell in love with the subject. In my eyes, programming was itself a medium for creating art, but one that a functional use beyond simply the aesthetic of the artwork. My art could create solutions for real-world problems and potentially touch the lives of millions of people, even without them ever knowing about it.  This was all I needed, I abandoned my original plan of taking over my father’s business and following my mother’s footsteps into the traditional art world; instead I focused all my energy on studying this marvelous combination of art and science known as Computer Science. 

At university, I diverged from Computer Science, adding the relatively new field of Cognitive Science as a second major. This allowed me to expand my art medium to include the fields of Artificial Intelligence (AI), eventually even writing a couple of unpublished papers discussing a theoretical approach to implementing creativity itself in a computer.

After university, while working at Quillsoft Ltd., not only did I develop web applications to assist students with learning disabilities, but I was also able to stretch my creative problem solving skills past the limits of only programming problems. I participated in designing systems, researching possible software tool integration into current systems, and collaborating on the development of new products to satisfy business and user requirements.

Today, I continue to expand my medium by exploring other areas of Computer Science, such as Cybersecurity, and creating my art in the form of modular libraries in the NPM and PyPi public repositories. Additionally, while I do not play the guitar yet, I recreationally express my creativity though traditional art mediums and cooking. 
