# About Me


My name is Laurkan Rodriguez and I am a Software Engineer. Although I am an Irish citizen, I was born in Barbados, a small island in the Caribbean. At a young, I was always fascinated with patterns, mathematics and computers; not unusual for a child with an obsession with 90s science fiction shows and a dream of being a scientist. However, after a day of being teased and bullied at school, I had thought that would drive me for years to come. 

				“I wonder what they were thinking?” 

This one question pushed me to travel to Canada, where I enrolled as an Artificial Intelligence specialist at University of Toronto. During my time at university, I realized that humans are complex creatures, and studying modeling the human brain would require a multifaceted approach. This lead me to switch programs and instead graduate with a Double Major in Computer Science and Cognitive Science, which is a multi-disciplined field focused on explaining the human brain though psychology, philosophy, linguistics and computer science.

However, turns out, getting a job as a university graduate is not easy, especially when work visas are involved. While waiting for responses, I decided to use my newfound skills in Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence to build and experiment with some of my favourite Neural Networks. This was before the dominance of automatic derivation in machine learning libraries, such as TensorFlow and PyTorch; so I was building these networks from scratch in Python, using the NumPy and SciPy libraries. Although fun, this project was doomed to fall to the wayside due to a lack in available data and a shift in focus to my first job at Quillsoft Ltd..

Quillsoft Ltd was a small company that specialized in accessibility software for education. It was here that I learnt UI & UX Design from Dr. Fraser Shein, who has a PhD in Human Computer Interaction, as well as how much a well designed and implemented software can influence people’s lives. Quillsoft specializes in making education software for children with learning disabilities, and it bought me great pride to know that the software I was creating would benefit the next generation. 

During my tenure at Quillsoft, using my knowledge of psychology and design principles, I strived to produce software that would increase user’s retention or understanding of information; in contrast to simply increasing the speed of information transfer, as done by spell check or word prediction software. The goal was to ensure success in their future, not provide them with a crutch to cling to forever.

After almost 4 years working in Toronto, with a permanent residency in hand, that nagging question reared its head yet again. I needed to know more! However, my time dealing with software products in real world scenarios taught me that the world is messy, and studying theories in a classroom isn’t going to cut it. I needed more exposure to real social situations and interactions with a variety of people. So, I quit my job and started backpacking though South East Asia.

My travels exposed me to a great variety of people, many with different backgrounds and cultures, enabling me to grow in ways I did not think possible and ultimately making me a better person. However all good things must end, and with the COVID-19 global pandemic getting worse every day, I was forced to return to the Western World and entered into quarantine. Although the mandatory isolation was difficult, traveling had taught me that every situation can be turned into an opportunity. 

While in isolation, I am began studying a variety of computer science topics, mostly focused on network security and cryptography. However, most of the study materials only focus on the basics, so I have been building my own experiments to explore these concepts further. As a believer in open source and modular designs, I generalized useful portions of my experiments, uploaded the source code to GitHub and then released packages on popular distribution platforms, such as NPM and PyPi.
